Today, I have a Couric interview question, and it's a question that's asked by companies like Microsoft,
Salesforce, Amazon and many other and this question is called valid, perfect square.
So in this problem, we are given a positive integer and we need to determine if it is a perfect score
to solve this problem.
We will use binary search where we will divide our data sets into half.
So let's get right to it to solve this problem.
You're given a function called Is Perfect Square, which takes a positive integer and we need to return
it.
True, if the given integer is a perfect score and you're not allowed to use any built-In library functions.
So we have to design an algorithm using binary search.
Let me explain.
So we're trying to find if nine is a perfect score.
So is there a number that's multiplied by itself which will equal nine?
So three times three will be four.
So, yes, nine is a perfect square.
So what that really means is that one of the numbers from one to nine squared would give us nine.
So for one score, give us nine.
One times one to two, it does nine.
Two times two with three.
Square two is nine, which is three times three.
Yes.
So instead of checking every number, we can do this by using binary search where we divide our datasets
into half.
So here, let's find our midpoint, which is five.
This five times, five or five square feet, fine.
No, it's it's greater than nine, so five that's five equal.
Twenty five, which is greater than nine.
So any number on the right side is greater than nine.
So what we can do is we can eliminate.
All of these numbers.
Right, and then we're going to find the midpoint right here.
We're going to split our data here.
So the middle is to.
So it's two squared equals and I know two squared equal to nine with two squared, which would be four.
So that would not be equal to nine, that would actually be less.
So we can eliminate the left side of the data.
And now we're going to find the middle here, the midpoint here, which is three.
OK.
Sorry about that.
So.
Three.
Square does not equal to nine.
Yes, it does.
So we have found.
Our number at nine is a perfect square.
So how we do this and we would have two variables, so we'll have the variable left.
And very for right, so that would be one and then, right, would be the number which we are given
and then we need to find the midpoint.
So how would we do that?
We would do.
That which is one plus.
Right, which is nine minus left.
Divided by two and then we round down.
So nine minus one, which will give us an eight.
And then we divide that by two.
That would give us a fourth and then we add one to it.
So that were people five.
The remainder were just rounded down so far to our midpoint.
So we start right here.
So now we're going to check this five times five squared doesn't equal nine.
No, actually it's greater than nine.
So we will eliminate all of the data sets to.
Right.
And then we're going to try to find them the midpoint again by going to this formula and the midpoint
here would be to.
So this two square equal nine, actually, it's the last two squared before, so it's less than nine.
So to make everything here because everything on the left side would be less than nine.
So there's no point.
So then again, we're going to find the midpoint point to this formula again, which would be three
Sodus three squared equals to nine.
Yes, it does.
So we found it and we can return.
True, because nine is a perfect score.
So let me show you this in code.
All right, guys.
So here we have the function called is perfect square and it takes a positive integer.
So what we need to do is we need to return a true if the NUM is a perfect square or else will return
a false.
So we have to note that we cannot use any built in library functions such as security, which is square
root.
So the first thing we're going to check if this number is less than one.
So if it's a zero, then we want to return to false because zero is not a perfect square.
And as we as I showed on the whiteboard, we need to create we need to create two pointers so the left
pointer and then the right pointer and the left pointer will always be one and the right pointer is
the number we're given.
So check out this example up here.
So the number is nine.
That's what we're given in this example.
So what are we going to have?
The left is going to be one.
So one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
So we're going to put the left pointer at one and then the right pointer is the number which which is
nine.
OK, now we're going to have this wild, so wild left, which is one.
Is less than or equal to the right is nine.
So I want is less than nine.
We're going to look and we're going to first get the midpoint.
So if you remember, this is the formula to get the midpoint.
So it is left plus right, minus left, divided by two, and we have the so to round it down.
So in this example, the midpoint would be five.
So what we're going to do is we're going to do is five times five, so midpoint times midpoint, does
it equal nine?
So five times five will give us a twenty five.
And it does not equal the number, which is nine.
So we will not return it.
True.
Instead, we will go into this outfit else.
So if the midpoint is midpoint, which is twenty five is greater than the number which is which we have
and the example is nine.
So we're going to go into this elusive and we're going to update the right pointer.
Why?
Because anything right of the middle right, anything right of the middle is greater than nine.
If you multiply it by itself, so if you do, six times six is greater than nine to seven times seven
is greater than nine.
If you do eight times eight, it's nine.
So anything out of the right of the midpoint is going to be greater than excuse me, is going to be
greater than nine.
So we want to update the right pointer and we want to move it to the left side of it.
So how are we going to do that?
We're going to say, right.
Pointer equals midpoint.
Equals midpoint.
Minus one.
So we're going to move the right pointer.
To the midpoint minus one to five, minus one, which will give us a four.
So we're going to move it right here.
OK, then again, so we're going to check is the midpoint times midpoint, which is going to give us
twenty five.
Is it less than over a number, which is nine?
No, it's less than nine.
So we're not going to go into this elusive.
So, again, we're going to go back and we're going to look again to the wire loop and we're going to
find the midpoint again.
So what is going to be the midpoint here?
We're going to go through this formula again.
So instead of five, now, the midpoint is going to be at to.
OK, so now we're going to do this again, midpoint as a midpoint, so two times, two times, two times
two, which is four, is that equal to over number nine?
No, it's not.
So we're going to go here.
Midpoints times midpoint, which is two times to four, is a greater than nine.
No, it's not.
So now we're here in this elusive.
So two times two, which equals four, is that less than nine?
Yes, it is less than nine, so.
Anything left of the midpoint is less than nine, so one times one is going to give us one.
So it's less than nine.
So what we want to do is we want to move our left pointer to the right of the middle.
So how are we going to do that?
So we're going to do this by upgrading the left.
Left equals midpoint plus one to midpoint point here.
An example is two, so two plus one, which would give us a three.
So we move the left.
The three.
OK, now, again, we're going to go back and go through this wild look again and we're going to check
the midpoint again.
So in this example, the middle is two and the left is three and the right is four.
So the middle is going to be.
Left, plus right, minus left, divided by two.
And we're going to use my thought to round it down.
So that means our new midpoint is going to be three.
So now we're going to go through this.
Midpoint times midpoint.
So three times three, does it equal nine, which is our number in our example?
Yes, three times three does equal nine.
So we're going to return a true and we're done.
So in the end, we have return false because let's say over the number that's given to us is not a perfect
score like five five is not a perfect score.
No number times itself can equal five.
So if you were given five, then you would have something like this one to five and we would find the
amid the left or right and we would go through this loop again.
But in the end, there would be no number times itself to give us a five.
So at that point, we would exit the loop and we return it to would return a false and that's pretty
much it.
That's how you find if the number is a perfect square, if you have any questions, then leave your
questions in the comments below.
And I will get back to.